Anna Hatha is symbolized with two intersecting triangles
forming A6 pointed star Sadhguru.
This is a symbolism of how the lower 3 chakras and the upper
three in the body are all meeting here as one.
That means it has 6 qualities in one.
Generally Anahata symbol is a six pointed star with a dot in
the center.
That means all the seven chakras have merged here in a certain
way.
Many cultures are using this symbolism in many different
connotations, but essentially it comes from this.
The upward moving triangle and the downward moving triangle
have met.
What upward moving triangle and downward moving triangle means
is fundamentally every creature in some way is trying to rise,
whatever their understanding of rising.
Little worm may be wanting to climb up the tree, A bird may
want to soar up in the sky.
A human being may wants to become rich or famous or
powerful or something else or wants to get enlightened.
All these are efforts to rise.
So this is the nature of the creation.
Every creature is trying to rise to its fullest potential.
Some will do it consciously, most will do it unconsciously.
But everybody is trying to rise.
This is the nature of life.
This is creation.
But that which is the source this problem of wanting to rise
has come because you are geostatic in the sense you are
stuck in one place.
Tch, you are stuck in one place means you are here.
You can only be here.
You can't be here and there because you are stuck in one
place.
You think of all the directions.
Going up is better.
It's a choice that you have made.
Somebody maybe just loitering around, somebody may be
consciously wanting to go up, but essentially you have to move
because you are stuck in one place.
That which we are referring to as the very source of
everything.
This is not geospecific, this is not geostatic, so it moves
everywhere.
It percolates into everything because it has no direction.
Because it has no location, you have a directional movement.
Only if you are stuck in one place, isn't it?
Only if you are geostatic, you will have a direction to go to.
If you are not geostatic, you're just everywhere.
There is nowhere to go, so you just seep into everything that
is there.
You soak everything that's around you.
So in this context, yogic terminology has used these two
triangles.
Creature is trying to move up the source is trying to come
down into this source, does not come down or go up nothing.
It just seeps into everything because it's not located in any
place.
Let's say like air.
Air enters your ears.
Also air enters the pores in your skin also, not just in your
stools.
If you open your mouth, it goes here also, it has no choice
about those things.
Wherever there is space, it will enter.
Similarly, let's understand it's only an analogy.
Don't start thinking on those terms.
Similarly that we consider as the source is moving everywhere.
But right now if you sit here, how is air moving?
Means we see in the passage it's going down like this and coming
out like this.
Air is going here also here also.
But this is the main source because if you deny this you
will die.
So you know that this is a must.
So in this context what we consider as the creature which
is this one is trying to move up, this is 1 triangle, upward
moving triangle.
What we consider as the source of the divine is coming down.
This is another triangle.
Downward facing triangle.
Anahatha is a place where both have intersected in a alignment,
proper alignment forming A6
starred 6 pointed figure with a
central point.
What this means is it has many possibilities in one place.
If there are too many possibilities in one place, it
is also a place where most people miss all possibilities
because there are too many things happening except for a
handful of people.
I've always avoided putting people on Anahata Sadhana
because there are too many choices and there are too many
confusions to go into Anahata Sadhana.
2 things are needed.
One thing is sweetness of emotion, another thing is
absolute.
Steadiness of the intellect and intellect means discernment.
There must be a discernment between what is real, what is
not real, what is memory, what is imagination, what is
experience, what is psychological stuff.
If this discernment is not there, Anahatta is not the place
to go, because this is the place where you hear and see things in
a way that even reasonably stable person can go crazy.
Somebody who has a little tendency will go all the way
because Anahatta, the word anahat means a sound without
reverb, unstruck sound.
Most of the sound on the planet happens because something
strikes something.
This is an unstruck sound.
That is, if you simplicit in silence, all kinds of sounds
will happen.
These sounds have been identified as 108 different
varieties of sound.
It is out of this that different deities have been associated
with different sounds.
In India, if you say Shiva, it's a Dhammaru or a drum.
Dhammaru is a meeting of two triangles like this.
When two equilateral triangles meet like this, it makes a a
drum.
When one is dominant in the Rana Hata, they start hearing things.
Sound of the bell?
It's real, the drum.
A wind instrument, like a flute.
These kind of things may start happening when you start hearing
things.
Generally it means that you're going crazy.
Hearing things is considered as the first sign of psychological
imbalance, and it is because those who are psychologically
imbalanced in some way also become perceptive in some other
way.
One dislocation enables them in some other way, But this kind of
enabling is not good for you.
It is like it is like a child who's just begun to walk.
You put him in a marathon race because he's got legs and for
sure he's going to damage himself.
So it is not that it is a bad thing, too much of a good thing.
When you're not ready for it or when you're no good for it, it's
a bad thing.
So This is why before you hear anything, your discernment must
be so crystal clear and your emotion should be sweet.
Everywhere.
We're going about talking about blissfulness and now we've kind
of got down a step lower and saying joy, joy, joy, Yogi's
guide to joy.
All this because without sweetness of emotion, there are
too many things that you cannot do.
Without sweetness of emotion, you are denying yourself the
universe, including everything here.
Only when emotions you have mastered the emotion to become
very sweet doesn't matter what.
Now going into different explorations is fine, because
otherwise you go into Anahata, you see something, you hear
something, you may come.
Terrorized.
Yes, truly terrorized.
Suppose you see something like this, something you think is
terrible.
See, your idea of something being terrible is I'm I'm.
I'm not seen too many, but sometimes when I'm switching
channels, I get to see what is considered a horror movie.
It's pathetic.
It doesn't horrify me.
It just horrifies me that some director has a mind like this.
Blood will suddenly come out of the ice.
Blood is always flowing in the body.
If little leak happens, what is so horrifying about it?
I'm asking.
From wherever it leaked.
What does it matter?
I am asking.
No, no, it's supposed to be horror.
Because a whole lot of people are innocent of these things.
They don't know blood is flowing, tch.
They think they are like this.
So for such people who are in such ignorance, suddenly
something from within happened.
Images came up.
Anna Hatha is the place.
Nahata is a fantastic place, but I find in today's world, getting
people to sharpen their mind and turning their emotions sweet is
quite a job.
Yogi's Guide to joy.
Is it working?